---
title: Run UBOS on an Amazon Web Services EC2 virtual server
weight: 50
---

To run UBOS on EC2, click on the icon below and follow the Amazon wizard.

<style>
div#ubos-amazon-ec2-image-latest { margin: 0 auto }
</style>
<script id="ubos-amazon-ec2-image-latest" src="/include/amazon-ec2-image-latest.js"></script>

Here are some recommended values for the parameters that Amazon wants you to specify.
However, UBOS is not very picky, so many different values should work as well.

* Choose an instance type based on your budget and requirements. To try out UBOS
  and for personal sites, a "Free Tier" server should be sufficient.

* Keep the root disk at 16GB.

* Name it whatever you like.

* You need to open the SSH, HTTP and HTTPS ports, otherwise you won't be able
  to log into your server or access web {{% gls App %}} it runs. Create a security rule
  that reflects that.

* Create a new key pair unless you have a suitable one already. Name it
  "UBOS shepherd" if you like. Download the private key and save it on your
  local machine in a secure place. If you are on a Mac or a Linux box,

  ```
  % chmod 400 <your-key-file>
  ```

  is a good idea.

Once your server has booted:

1. Determine its public IP address from the AWS site. Then ssh into it as user ``shepherd``:

   ```
   % ssh -i <your-key-file> -l shepherd <ip>
   ```

1. Now: wait. UBOS needs to generate a few cryptographic keys before it is ready to use
   and initialize a few other things on the first boot. That might take a few minutes.
   To determine whether UBOS ready, execute:

   ```
   % systemctl is-system-running
   ```

1. Update UBOS to the latest and greatest:

   ```
   % sudo ubos-admin update
   ```

1. You are now ready for {{% pageref "/docs/users/firstsite.md" %}}.

